SE-17237 maintain rtf (#286)
mulesoft/docs-runtime-fabric: modules/ROOT/pages/install-patches.adoc

= Perform Scheduled Maintenance
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

> Use the following procedure when performing scheduled maintenance for Anypoint Runtime Fabric nodes, such as applying OS patches and security updates. 

Reviewer: Suggest adding "controller" and "worker" to this intro so as to set the expectation for the two subtasks:
```suggestion
Use the following procedures to performing scheduled maintenance, such as applying OS patches and security updates, on Anypoint Runtime Fabric controller and worker nodes.
```
...or similar wording.

Reviewer: I'm not sure that it matters, but consider standardizing the term for what we are asking our audience to do:

- perform scheduled maintenance?
- perform maintenance?
- update?

== Controller Node Maintenance

> The controller nodes are the entry points into your Runtime Fabric cluster but do not run application workloads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Controller nodes are only entry points to your Runtime Fabric cluster; they do not run application workloads.
```

> To update controller nodes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Update all controller nodes, one at a time:
```

> . On your upstream TCP load balancer, remove the controller nodes one at a time from your load balancing pool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. On your upstream TCP load balancer, remove a controller node from your load balancing pool.
```

. Perform the required patching and reboot the node.

> . When updates are complete on each controller node, add the node back to the cluster before removing the next one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Return the updated node to the cluster.
. Repeat Steps 1 and 2 until all controller nodes in the load balancing pool are updated.
```

== Worker Node Maintenance

> 

Reviewer: The text intro to this subtask should prepare the audience for the two options (?), clarifying what they are because it's confusing to have both of these leadins:

To update worker nodes: 

(and)

If you have multiple environments, repeat the remaining steps in each environment. 
+
. Perform the following steps on all worker nodes that require updates:

. On a controller node, run the `gravity shell` command.
. Verify that the status for all nodes is `READY`:
+
```

> $ sudo kubectl get nodes

Reviewer 2: I believe we don't need to run these commands as sudo once we enter gravity shell.
```
ip-172-31-0-91:/$ kubectl get nodes
NAME           STATUS   ROLES    AGE    VERSION
172.31.0.124   Ready    node     2d     v1.13.13-gravitational.0
172.31.0.187   Ready    master   2d     v1.13.13-gravitational.0
172.31.0.219   Ready    node     2d     v1.13.13-gravitational.0
172.31.0.91    Ready    master   2d1h   v1.13.13-gravitational.0
172.31.1.236   Ready    node     2d     v1.13.13-gravitational.0
172.31.1.24    Ready    master   2d     v1.13.13-gravitational.0
172.31.2.112   Ready    master   2d     v1.13.13-gravitational.0
172.31.2.117   Ready    node     2d     v1.13.13-gravitational.0
172.31.3.206   Ready    master   2d     v1.13.13-gravitational.0
172.31.3.23    Ready    node     2d     v1.13.13-gravitational.0
ip-172-31-0-91:/$
```

Author: Removed `sudo` - thank you!

NAME          STATUS   ROLES    AGE   VERSION
172.31.0.9    Ready    node     1d   v1.x.x
172.31.0.8    Ready    master   1d   v1.x.x
```
. Retrieve the application namespace (environment ID): 
+
```

> $ sudo kubectl get ns

Reviewer 2: Btw just in general, once we enter the gravity shell, we don't need to prefix sudo in any of the subsequent kubectl commands, since the user is root already.
```
ip-172-31-0-91:/$ whoami
root
ip-172-31-0-91:/$
```
So it may be better to remove sudo prefix from all the subsequent kubectl commands

Author: Ah - DUH on my part. :) I've removed the subsequent occurrences of `sudo`. Thank you!

```
+
In the command output, the application namespace is represented by a long string of characters. In the following example, the application namespace
is `fff5df7b-c49d-48c9-967d-0071412722x4`.
+

> More than one application namespace value is displayed if the RTF cluster is associated with more than 1 environment.

Reviewer 2: Do we need to highlight the application namespace below for clarity?

Author: It's mentioned in the previous statement - happy to move it if there's a better location.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps move the command output right below the command `kubectl get ns`, and then say _In the command output above.._ ?

Author: Updated this - good point!

kube-public                            Active   1d
kube-system                            Active   1d
monitoring                             Active   1d
rtf                                    Active   1d
```
+
In the command output, the application namespace is represented by a long string of characters. In the previous example, the application namespace
is `fff5df7b-c49d-48c9-967d-0071412722x4`.
+

> More than one application namespace value is displayed if the RTF cluster is associated with more than one environment.

Reviewer: Consider reworking this text to clarify the process for one environment vs. more than one environment.

. Verify that the pods and nodes are still running in your namespace:
+
```
$ kubectl -n <namespace> get pod -owide
```
+

> In the command output, verify that `Running` is displayed in the `READY` column, as shown in the following example:

Reviewer: This is currently worded as a separate step, so...
```suggestion
The command output displays `Running` in the `READY` column:
```

+
```
NAME                                         READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE     IP             NODE          NOMINATED NODE   READINESS GATES
my-app-name-1-84f95cb7c9-glktk     2/2     Running   0          9m27s   10.244.88.29   172.31.0.9   <none>           <none>
```
+

> If you have multiple environments, repeat the remaining steps in each environment. 

Reviewer: What does this mean?
If you have one environment, stop the task here?
And if you do not, drain the node, verify, patch and reboot, and reenable scheduling?
You don't need to perform any of the above for a single environment?

We might need three subtasks here:
controller node
worker node, one environment
worker node, multiple environments

+

> . Perform the following steps on all worker nodes that require updates:

Reviewer: This looks like it should be a task intro rather than a step itself: 

If you have multiple environments: 
. Drain
. Verify
. Verify
. Patch and rebook
. Reenable

Reviewer: The following edits are stylistic only and don't include reorganization into new step and text levels that acceptance of previous edits requires....

> .. Drain the node. The following actions are performed when a node is drained:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Drain the node. +
The following actions are performed when a node is drained:
```

> ... The application is scheduled on another node and is then deleted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The application is scheduled on another node and is then deleted.
```

> ... Node status is updated to `SchedulingDisabled`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Node status is updated to `SchedulingDisabled`. 
```

+
[IMPORTANT]

> Unless you are running at least 2 replicas of your application and specified *Enforce deploying replicas across node* when you deployed it, service is disrupted during the drain process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unless you are running at least two replicas of your application and specified *Enforce deploying replicas across node* when you deployed it, service is disrupted during the drain process.
```
This might need saying BEFORE the audience even begins the task, so that the audience can plan for the potential disruption. It's kind of a Prerequisite.

+
```
$ kubectl drain <node name> --ignore-daemonsets --delete-local-data
```

.. Verify that the node's status is `Ready,SchedulingDisabled`:
+
```
$ kubectl get node

NAME          STATUS                     ROLES    AGE   VERSION
172.31.0.9   Ready,SchedulingDisabled   node     1d   v1.x.x
```

.. Verify that no pods are running on the node:
+
```
$ kubectl get pod -n <namespace>  -owide
```
+

> The `NODE` column <check the NODE column. There should be no application pods running on the drained node>

Reviewer: Fix this sentence; looks like in-process/experimental wording....

.. Proceed with OS patching and reboot the node.

> .. After the reboot is complete, re-enable scheduling on the node:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. After the reboot is complete, reenable scheduling on the node:
```
